Host a Static Website on AWS S3 with Custom Domain and SSL Certificate
Step 1: Host a Static Website on S3
Sign in to the AWS Management Console and navigate to the Amazon S3 service.
Click "Create bucket," enter a unique bucket name that matches your desired domain name, and select a region.
Upload your static website content (HTML, CSS, JavaScript, images, etc.) to the bucket using the "Upload" button.
In the bucket settings, scroll down to the "Static website hosting" section, enable it, and enter "index.html" as the Index document.
Click on the "Permissions" tab, then "Bucket Policy." Use the AWS Policy Generator to create a policy that grants public read access to your content. Replace "your-bucket-name" with the actual bucket name in the generated policy:

{
  "Version":"2012-10-17",
  "Statement":[{
    "Sid":"PublicReadGetObject",
        "Effect":"Allow",
      "Principal": "*",
      "Action":["s3:GetObject"],
      "Resource":["arn:aws:s3:::your-bucket-name/*"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
Access your website using the provided S3 bucket URL, e.g., http://your-bucket-name.s3-website-us-west-2.amazonaws.com.
Step 2: Purchase a Custom Domain
Buy a domain name from a domain registrar, such as GoDaddy or Namecheap.
Step 3: Configure Amazon Route 53
In the AWS Management Console, navigate to the Route 53 service and click "Create hosted zone."
Enter your custom domain name and select "Public hosted zone." Click "Create."
Note the four nameservers provided by Route 53 (e.g., ns-123.awsdns-12.com).
Update the nameservers in your domain registrar's DNS configuration to match the ones provided by Route 53.
Note
It may take up to 48 hours for the nameserver updates to propagate across the internet.

Step 4: Create an SSL Certificate
Go to the AWS Certificate Manager (ACM) and click "Request a certificate."
Choose "Request a public certificate," enter your domain name (including any subdomains), and click "Next."
Select "DNS validation" and click "Review." Confirm the details and click "Confirm and request."
On the certificate details page, click the "Create record in Route 53" button for each DNS validation record. This will automatically create the necessary records in your hosted zone.
Wait for the certificate status to change from "Pending validation" to "Issued."
Step 5: Configure CloudFront
In the AWS Management Console, navigate to the CloudFront service and click "Create distribution."
Choose "Web" as the delivery method and click "Get started."
Set the "Origin domain" to your S3 bucket using the website endpoint (e.g., your-bucket-name.s3-website-us-west-2.amazonaws.com).
Configure the "Viewer protocol policy" to "Redirect HTTP to HTTPS."
Under "Alternate Domain Names (CNAMEs)," add your custom domain name (e.g., example.com and www.example.com).
Scroll down to the "SSL certificate" section, click "Custom SSL certificate," and select the SSL certificate you created earlier.
Click "Create distribution" and wait for the status to change from "InProgress" to "Deployed."
Step 6: Route Traffic Using Route 53
In Route 53, create a new A record for your custom domain. Set the "Alias" toggle to "Yes" and select the CloudFront distribution you created earlier as the alias target.
Repeat this process for any subdomains (e.g., www.example.com) you want to route to your static website.
Conclusion
By following these detailed steps, you have successfully hosted a static website on Amazon S3, secured it with an SSL certificate, and configured a custom domain using Amazon Route 53 and CloudFront. Your website is now accessible via your custom domain name and benefits from the performance and security features provided by AWS.
